This is the Underscore.js library.
It's a very famous library in JavaScript
that helps you work with arrays and
collections of objects.
The really neat thing about Underscore,
besides how incredibly useful it is,
is that it also made an effort to
show how it implemented what it did.
And that gets to something that I'll
talk about later in this course,
which is what I call
an open source education.
There's a massive,
massive library of JavaScript code
out there available for free for you.
Libraries and
frameworks that are well used and
well regarded and
their source code is excellent.
You can read the source code of these
libraries and learn things for free.
The challenge, of course,
is that you need to understand
some of these advanced concepts
that we've talked about.
And that's what I hope this
course is helping you to do.
To be able to get an open source education
to be able to write better JavaScript,
but also learn from really good JavaScript
by being able to read good JavaScript.
All right, so Underscore.js,
if I scroll down,
you can download the production version or
the development version.
I downloaded the development version
because it has a whole lot of comments,
and you can just read right through
it to see how all this works.
Or you can go to this link here
called Annotated Source, and
it actually breaks out those comments
in a separate column next to the code.
So you can read right through
the underscore.js code,
and underscore.js implements a lot
of functional programming concepts.
You're almost always passing
what they call an iteratee, or
a predicate, a function that does work.
It is other functions that do
a lot of really good work.
So I encourage you to take a look
at the annotated source code for
underscore.js and try using it.
Read through some of it.
See what you can learn.
Also, there's an alternate
library called lodash.
That L-O-D-A-S-H.com.
It works very much the same on
the outside as Underscore, but
implements extra features and
has rewritten some of its utilities
that turn out to work a bit faster.
So, some people prefer lodash,
although Underscore and lodash go back and
forth on a lot of things.
It doesn't really matter
which one you choose,
but I encourage you to go through this
annotated source code in Underscore,
because it's so
useful on such an education.
I also like to give credit to
the originators of an idea.
Underscore was first.
Lodash is something that came along later.
And while it certainly deserves a lot of
credit for constructing some even faster,
even better performing code,
it's an awful lot easier to take an idea
and improve upon it than it is to create
an idea from scratch in the first place.
So, I like to give credit to the
originators, to the creators of an idea.
So Underscore is the first,
it came along first, and
it has this nice annotated source code for
you to look at.
I encourage you to go through it.
It's certainly not bad code by
any stretch of the imagination.
It is extraordinarily clean and
extraordinarily popular.
Let's just try using it just for a second.
I'll give myself a little room here.
I've downloaded the underscore.js library.
So, it's just a lot of JavaScript code.
By the way, notice what it starts with.
See that?
What does this famous,
well-used library start with?
That's right.
Its code is wrapped inside of an
immediately invoked function expression.
So that all of this code inside of
here doesn't collide with any code
that you might be writing.
Cool, right?
All right, so I have all this
code with all these comments.
I've included it and
then I've referenced it
in my index.html file
before my app.js file.
So that immediately invoked function
expression that wraps all that Underscore
code will execute, and then I'll have
an object in the global object to use.
The object and
the global object that is set up tries to
minimize how much typing you have to do.
It's literally just an _,
that's the name of the object.
That's a valid name in JavaScript.
So that means I only have to write
one character to use this library,
saves a lot of typing.
And so, then it has all of
these methods available to it.
So, for example,
if I was to do something similar
to the map that we just made,
I'll make a new array.
I can do _.map, give it an array,
and give it the function to do work.
Let’s say I just want to multiple by 3,
all of my items in my array and
get a new array back.
Incidently, Underscore's map is a lot
better than the one we just wrote because
it covers a lot more scenarios.
There we go, 3, 6, and 9.
That array times 3,
all of its items times 3.
There's other things I could do like,
I want an array _,
that's the name of the object that
was put intentionally onto the global
object to make available everywhere.
And I could do .filter.
I'll give it, let's say, an array,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and
then I want to get back
only items that have
a remainder when divided by 2 of 0.
So these are items that
are divisible by 0.
See that?
So this should give me back a filter.
It will filter out of this list and
give me back a sublist.
So I've essentially queried my big,
long array and
gotten back only items divisible by 2.
And there's a whole bunch of other methods
that Underscore and lodash offer to us.
And they all involve understanding
these functional programming concepts.
So mess around with Underscore.
Play with it awhile.
Look at its source code.
You will learn a lot.
And start thinking about how you can
implement these ideas in your own code.
How can you use first class functions
to their best advantage to write and
build cleaner code, to build things
that other programmers can use,
programmers maybe that you're even
working with or others on the internet?
That they can reuse more easily, that
you yourself can reuse more easily and
write less code.
This is the power of
functional programing, and
also the power of an open
source education.
All right, so JavaScript,
first class objects,
first class functions, and
functional programming.